[Launchpad for VMs] start of vm section (#10761)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/vm-management/launchpad-for-vms/virtual-machines/managing.md

| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **All Namespaces**    | The list defaults to showing VMs across all namespaces you can access. For users with cluster-wide access (ClusterRoleBinding or VMO IAM role mapping), this means all managed namespaces. For OIDC users with namespace-scoped RoleBindings granted through **Settings** > **Access Management**, only VMs in their permitted namespaces appear. Use the namespace dropdown to filter further by a specific namespace or to view per-namespace counts. |

> | **Status Indicators** | Each VM shows its status: Running, Stopped, Pending, Failed, or other KubeVirt states. The status reflects the Virtual Machine Instance (VMI) when the VM is running.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Status Indicators** | Each VM shows its status: **Running**, **Stopped**, **Pending**, **Failed**, or other KubeVirt states. The status reflects the Virtual Machine Instance (VMI) when the VM is running.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
```

| **Restart** | Stops and then starts the VM. The guest receives a reboot signal when the QEMU guest agent is installed.                                 |

:::info

Stop and restart require the VM to be running. For VMs with `runStrategy: Always`, stop temporarily sets the strategy to
Halted.

:::

### Pause and Unpause

| **Action**  | **Description**                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Pause**   | Suspends a running VM. The guest stops running, and Launchpad holds its CPU and memory state in memory. A paused VM continues to reserve its memory and compute. |
| **Unpause** | Resumes a paused VM from the point where it was suspended.                                                                                                       |

When you pause a VM, its status changes to **Paused** and the toolbar action changes to **Unpause**. Pause and unpause

> let you suspend a VM briefly without writing its state to disk or stopping the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Pause** and **Unpause** let you briefly suspend a VM without writing its state to disk or stopping it.
```

Reviewer: Also consider removing "briefly" unless VMs can only be paused for a certain time period?

If so, we should state the implications of a long pause.

### Live Migration

> **Migrate** live-migrates the VM to another node. The VM continues running during migration with minimal downtime. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Migrate** [live-migrates](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/compute/live_migration/) the VM to another node. The VM continues running during migration with minimal downtime. This
```

| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Paste**        | Paste text from your machine into the VM. If your browser does not grant clipboard access automatically, Launchpad displays a dialog where you can paste the text and select **Send**. |
| **Ctrl+Alt+Del** | Send the Ctrl+Alt+Del key combination to the VM.                                                                                                                                       |
| **Full Screen**  | Use the full-screen control for a larger view.                                                                                                                                         |
| **Reconnect**    | If the connection drops, refresh or reopen the console to reconnect.                                                                                                                   |

:::info

> The VNC console requires the VM to be running. If the VM is stopped, start it first from the Overview tab or VM list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VNC console requires the VM to be running. If the VM is stopped, start it first from the **Overview** tab or VM list.
```

| **Source**        | How the snapshot was created, such as **Manual** or from a snapshot policy.                                                                                                 |
| **Created**       | The date and time the snapshot was taken.                                                                                                                                   |
| **Status**        | The snapshot status, such as **Ready**.                                                                                                                                     |
| **Last Restored** | The date and time the snapshot was last restored, or a dash when it has not been restored.                                                                                  |
| **Indications**   | Conditions captured with the snapshot, such as **Online** (taken while the VM was running) or `NoGuestAgent` (the QEMU guest agent was not available to quiesce the guest). |
| **Actions**       | **Restore** the VM from the snapshot, or **Delete** the snapshot.                                                                                                           |

> :::warning

Reviewer: This feels more like info than a warning, or perhaps under a new heading 4 named "Important Behaviors" or similar.

- The VM does not need to be stopped to take a snapshot; online snapshots are supported.
- To restore a snapshot, the VM must be stopped first.
- Restoring overwrites the current VM state. Consider taking a new snapshot before you restore.

:::

### Events Tab

Review Kubernetes events associated with the VM and its VMI. Use this tab to diagnose scheduling, image pull, and
startup issues.

### Diagnostics Tab

Review guest-agent diagnostics for a running VM, such as operating system information, interfaces, and filesystems.

### YAML Tab

View and edit the raw `VirtualMachine` manifest. Use **Patch** for targeted changes or **Full Update** to replace the
entire spec. Changes are applied immediately to the cluster.

:::warning

> Editing YAML directly can lead to invalid or inconsistent state. Prefer the Configuration form when possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Editing YAML files directly may result in an invalid or inconsistent state. Use the Configuration form when possible.
```
